README.md, before:

# accessible-menu

[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/accessible-menu?label=RELEASE&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/accessible-menu)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/NickDJM/accessible-menu?style=for-the-badge)](/LICENSE)
[![Build and tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nickdjm/accessible-menu/Tests/3.x?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/NickDJM/accessible-menu/actions)

A JavaScript library to help you generate WCAG accessible menus in the DOM.

The supported menu types are:

- [Disclosure Navigation Menus](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/disclosure/disclosure-navigation.html)
- [Navigation Menubar](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/menubar/menubar-1/menubar-1.html), and
- [Navigation Treeview](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/treeview/treeview-2/treeview-2a.html)

## Browser Support

| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/chrome/chrome.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Chrome | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/firefox/firefox.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Firefox | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/safari/safari_32x32.png" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Safari  | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/edge/edge.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Edge | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/chromium/chromium.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Chromium | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/webkit/webkit.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Webkit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions |

Found something that doesn't work the way it should in one of the listed browsers above? [Open an issue](https://github.com/NickDJM/accessible-menu/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug_report.md&title=Bug%3A+%5BBrief+Description%5D)!

## Installation

### NPM

NPM is recommended for large-scale development, since it works well with bundlers like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/).

```shell
# latest stable
npm install accessible-menu
```

### CDN

For learning/prototyping purposes you can use the latest version with:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu/dist/accessible-menu.js"></script>
```

For production environments, it is recommend to use a specific version to avoid unforseen breaking changes:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/accessible-menu.min.js"></script>
```

## Usage

To use **accessible-menu**, you first need to make sure your menu matches the following structure:

```html
<ul id="example-menu">
  <li><a href="/about">About</a></li>
  <li class="dropdown">
    <a href="#">Projects ▼</a>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/projects/awesome">Awesome project</a></li>
      <li><a href="/projects/not-so-awesome">Not-so-awesome project</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="/contact">Contact me</a></li>
</ul>
```

Include **accessible-menu** through import or bundled library in your project:

```js
import AccessibleMenu from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/accessible-menu.min.js"></script>
```

Once you have **accessible-menu** loaded, declare a new menu object.

`menuElement` is required for all menus, while `submenuItemSelector` is _only_ required if you have submenus/dropdowns.

```js
const menu = new AccessibleMenu.DisclosureMenu({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

### Only need one type of menu class?

Bundled versions of each menu are provided in the dist and individual exports are provided in the index.

There are also compiled ES Module versions if you don't want to use an iife!

#### DisclosureMenu usage

```js
import { DisclosureMenu } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/disclosure-menu.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new DisclosureMenu({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

#### Menubar usage

```js
import { Menubar } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/menubar.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new Menubar({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

#### Treeview usage

```js
import { Treeview } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/navigationTreeview.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new Treeview({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

### Documentation

- [API Documentation](https://accessible-menu.netlify.app/)
- Basics
  - [Single-level menu](docs/basics/single-level-menu.md)
  - [Single-level menu with toggle](docs/basics/single-level-menu-with-toggle.md)
  - [Two-level menu with toggle](docs/basics/two-level-menu-with-toggle.md)

### Examples

Looking for a working example of **accessible-menu**? Check out these jsfiddles:

- [Custom implementation](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/yokxg0vr/)
- [Bootstrap 4](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/ku28qd97/)
- [TailwindCSS](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/4rfsqw5z/)

## Versioning

This project uses Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 to keep track of releases.

For more detailed information about SemVer, please see the [official documentation](https://semver.org/).

## Contributing

If you're interested in contributing to the project, please read the [Contribution Guidelines](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md). Any and all contributions _must_ follow these guidelines or they will not be accepted.

Commit message:

docs: add upgrade guide from v2 to v3
See #107

README.md, after:

# accessible-menu

[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/accessible-menu?label=RELEASE&style=for-the-badge)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/accessible-menu)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/NickDJM/accessible-menu?style=for-the-badge)](/LICENSE)
[![Build and tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/nickdjm/accessible-menu/Tests/3.x?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/NickDJM/accessible-menu/actions)

A JavaScript library to help you generate WCAG accessible menus in the DOM.

The supported menu types are:

- [Disclosure Navigation Menus](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/disclosure/disclosure-navigation.html)
- [Navigation Menubar](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/menubar/menubar-1/menubar-1.html), and
- [Navigation Treeview](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices-1.2/examples/treeview/treeview-2/treeview-2a.html)

## Browser Support

| <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/chrome/chrome.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Chrome | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/firefox/firefox.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Firefox | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/safari/safari_32x32.png" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Safari  | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/edge/edge.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Edge | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/chromium/chromium.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Chromium | <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/alrra/browser-logos/main/src/webkit/webkit.svg" role="presentation" width="32px" height="32px" /><br />Webkit |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions | last 2 versions |

Found something that doesn't work the way it should in one of the listed browsers above? [Open an issue](https://github.com/NickDJM/accessible-menu/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug_report.md&title=Bug%3A+%5BBrief+Description%5D)!

## Installation

### NPM

NPM is recommended for large-scale development, since it works well with bundlers like [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) or [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/).

```shell
# latest stable
npm install accessible-menu
```

### CDN

For learning/prototyping purposes you can use the latest version with:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu/dist/accessible-menu.js"></script>
```

For production environments, it is recommend to use a specific version to avoid unforseen breaking changes:

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/accessible-menu.min.js"></script>
```

## Upgrading from version 2 to version 3?

Check out the [upgrade guide](docs/upgrading-from-v2-to-v3.md)!

## Usage

To use **accessible-menu**, you first need to make sure your menu matches the following structure:

```html
<ul id="example-menu">
  <li><a href="/about">About</a></li>
  <li class="dropdown">
    <a href="#">Projects ▼</a>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="/projects/awesome">Awesome project</a></li>
      <li><a href="/projects/not-so-awesome">Not-so-awesome project</a></li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="/contact">Contact me</a></li>
</ul>
```

Include **accessible-menu** through import or bundled library in your project:

```js
import AccessibleMenu from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/accessible-menu.min.js"></script>
```

Once you have **accessible-menu** loaded, declare a new menu object.

`menuElement` is required for all menus, while `submenuItemSelector` is _only_ required if you have submenus/dropdowns.

```js
const menu = new AccessibleMenu.DisclosureMenu({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

### Only need one type of menu class?

Bundled versions of each menu are provided in the dist and individual exports are provided in the index.

There are also compiled ES Module versions if you don't want to use an iife!

#### DisclosureMenu usage

```js
import { DisclosureMenu } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/disclosure-menu.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new DisclosureMenu({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

#### Menubar usage

```js
import { Menubar } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/menubar.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new Menubar({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

#### Treeview usage

```js
import { Treeview } from "accessible-menu";
```

or

```html
<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/accessible-menu@3.0.0/dist/navigationTreeview.min.js"></script>
```

then

```js
const menu = new Treeview({
  menuElement: document.querySelector("#example-menu"),
  submenuItemSelector: "li.dropdown",
});
```

### Documentation

- [API Documentation](https://accessible-menu.netlify.app/)
- Basics
  - [Single-level menu](docs/basics/single-level-menu.md)
  - [Single-level menu with toggle](docs/basics/single-level-menu-with-toggle.md)
  - [Two-level menu with toggle](docs/basics/two-level-menu-with-toggle.md)

### Examples

Looking for a working example of **accessible-menu**? Check out these jsfiddles:

- [Custom implementation](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/yokxg0vr/)
- [Bootstrap 4](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/ku28qd97/)
- [TailwindCSS](https://jsfiddle.net/NickDJM/4rfsqw5z/)

## Versioning

This project uses Semantic Versioning 2.0.0 to keep track of releases.

For more detailed information about SemVer, please see the [official documentation](https://semver.org/).

## Contributing

If you're interested in contributing to the project, please read the [Contribution Guidelines](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md). Any and all contributions _must_ follow these guidelines or they will not be accepted.
