docs/supported-menus.md, before:

# Supported Menus

There are currently four kinds of supported menus that you can generate with Accessible Menu:

- Disclosure Navigation Menus,
- Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-Level Links,
- Navigation Menubars, and
- Navigation Treeviews.

## Disclosure Navigation Menus

Disclosure Navigation Menus are typically the standard navigations you will see on the web. They use tab navigation and have the least amount of features of all the menus.

You can read more about [Disclosure Navigation Menus in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/disclosure/examples/disclosure-navigation/).

## Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links

Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links is a more advanced version of the regular Disclosure Navigation Menu.
It splits dropdown items in the top-level into links and dropdown buttons, allowing you to have more control of landing and sub-page navigation.

You can read more about [Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/disclosure/examples/disclosure-navigation-hybrid/).

## Navigation Menubar

A Navigation Menubar is more suited to application-level menus. It focuses more on keyboard navigation using arrow keys instead of tabs.

You can read more about [Navigation Menubars in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/menubar/examples/menubar-navigation/).

## Navigation Treeview

A Navigation Treeview is meant for vertical navigations in a more tabular display. Like Navigation Menubars, it focuses more on keyboard navigation using arrow keys instead of tabs.

You can read more about [Navigation Treeviews in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/treeview/examples/treeview-navigation/).

Commit message:

docs: add initial menu docs

docs/supported-menus.md, after:

# Supported Menus

There are currently four kinds of supported menus that you can generate with Accessible Menu:

- [Disclosure Navigation Menus](#disclosure-navigation-menus),
- [Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-Level Links](#disclosure-navigation-menus-with-top-level-links),
- [Navigation Menubars](#navigation-menubar), and
- [Navigation Treeviews](#navigation-treeview).

## Disclosure Navigation Menus

Disclosure Navigation Menus are typically the standard navigations you will see on the web. They use tab navigation and have the least amount of features of all the menus.

You can read more about [Disclosure Navigation Menus in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/disclosure/examples/disclosure-navigation/), or see the Accessible Menu implementation of [Disclosure Menus](./disclosure-menus).

## Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links

Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links is a more advanced version of the regular Disclosure Navigation Menu.
It splits dropdown items in the top-level into links and dropdown buttons, allowing you to have more control of landing and sub-page navigation.

You can read more about [Disclosure Navigation Menus with Top-level Links in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/disclosure/examples/disclosure-navigation-hybrid/), or see the Accessible Menu implementation of [Top Link Disclosure Menus](./top-link-disclosure-menus).

## Navigation Menubar

A Navigation Menubar is more suited to application-level menus. It focuses more on keyboard navigation using arrow keys instead of tabs.

You can read more about [Navigation Menubars in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/menubar/examples/menubar-navigation/), or see the Accessible Menu implementation of [Menubars](./menubars).

## Navigation Treeview

A Navigation Treeview is meant for vertical navigations in a more tabular display. Like Navigation Menubars, it focuses more on keyboard navigation using arrow keys instead of tabs.

You can read more about [Navigation Treeviews in the ARIA Authoring Practices Guide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/patterns/treeview/examples/treeview-navigation/), or see the Accessible Menu implementation of [Treeviews](./treeviews).
